# detection and segmentation(other cv tasks)

## segmentation
- semantic segmentation(语义分割): category label for each pixel in image
    - don't differentiate instances(little deficiency)
- idea: sliding window, split image to crops then classify
    - problem: very inefficient, need lots of computation and cannot share the same CONV layer during convolution
- idea: Fully Convolutional
    - without FC layer
    - consists of a bunch of convolutional layers, to preserve spatial size of input
    - $3\times H\times W\mathrm{(input)}\to D\times H\times W\mathrm{(conv)}\to C\times H\times W\mathrm{(scores)}\to H\times W\mathrm{(prediction\ by\ average,argmax)}$
    - training data is expensive(need labels on every pixels)
    - computational expensive and takes much memory, seen less.
        - in practice: with downsampling and upsampling inside the network(to reduce resolution and recover back)
        - downsampling: pooling, stride conv
        - upsampling: "unpooling"
            1. nearest neighbour(copy in same way)
            2. "bed of nails"(expand other grids with zeros, nail specific number in the **same position of downsampling**)
            3. learnable upsampling: transpose convolution (deconvolution/ upconvolution/ fractionally strided convolution/ backward strided convolution)
                - stride is in output, see input as weight for filter, receptive field overlap needs sum up two parts.
                - see as matrix multiplication(1-D example, see input and filters as column vectors): $\vec{x}*\vec{a}=X\vec{a}\to \vec{x}*^T\vec{a}=X^T\vec{a}$, where $\vec{a}$ is input, $\vec{x}$ is filter.
                - when stride >1, transpose conv weight matrix $W$ may not like normal convolution(?)
        - improvement allows deeper network

## classification + localization
- (single object) classify and draw boxes of target object to illustrate location.
- classification + localization: image -CNN> vector(4096) -FCN> class socres/ box coordinates(x,y,w,h) 
- including two loss: correct label(softmax) and box(L2)
    - L1, L2 loss mean continuous value(not normal classify), regression.
    - multi-task gradient, want scalar gradient, need extra hyperparameter to adjust weight between these two loss functions
    - but finally hyperparam choice(in cross validation) should depend on performance metrics rather than this.
    - in practice sometimes people train these two FCN separately.
- example: human pose estimation(truly need position infomation)

## detection
- not fixed number of output, classify and localization
- as classification(CNN): sliding window, add more categories(like background)
    - problem: too many choices of crops, computationally expensive.
- region proposals
    - traditional algorithm(not neural networks)
    - find all possible "blobby" region(like Selective Search)
    - fast to tun, return about 2000 boxes
- R-CNN
    - find reigons of interest(RoI) using region proposal
    - wrap image regions to same size
    - forwoar each region through ConvNet
    - loss: classify with SVMs and prediction bounding box(may different from RoI), multi-task loss.
    - problem: super slow
- fast R-CNN
    - image to ConvNet, use RoI from features, then "RoI pooling" ready for next FC layers
    - key is share CONV feature results
    - output softmax classifier and Bounding-box regressors as multi-task loss regression.
    - very fast (10X), test time dominated by region proposal
- faster R-CNN: use Region Proposal Network(RPN)(also need multi-task training) to predict region proposal.
- without proposal: YOLO/SSD
    - with one big convolutional network
    - divide image into grid(7\*7), make a set of base boxes(B) centered at each center.
    - regress from each B base boxes to final box with 5 params(dx, dy, dh, dw, confidence)
    - predict scores for each C classes
    - output: $7\times 7\times (5*B+C)$
    - comparision: Faster R-CNN is slower but more accuracy than SSD.
- dense captioning: objection detection + captioning, substitude SVM, Softmax loss in Fast R-CNN with RNN

## instance segmentation
- like hybrid objection detection, but instead bounding box with pixel mask
- mask R-CNN: joint end-to-end trainable model, one branch is faster R-CNN, another is semantic segmentation
