# practice (L11, L12)

## matrix space (see matrix as vectors)
- subspace $M_{3\times 3}$, $\dim M=9$
- upper triangles, $\dim U=6$
- symmetric matrices, $\dim S=6$
    - $S\cap U$: diagonal matrices, $\dim D=3$
    - $S+U=M$ (not union): linear combination of any $S$ and $U$
    - $\dim (S+U)+\dim (S\cap U)=\dim S+\dim U$

## rank one matrices
- decomposition: $A=uv^T$ where $u,v$ are column vectors.
- construction: $\mathrm{rank}=4$ matrix is linear combination of some $\mathrm{rank}=1$ matrices.
- same rank matrices:
    - suppose $M$ is rank 4 metrices of all $5\times 17$ metrices
    - $\to M$ is not a subset (not closure): $rank(A+B)\le rank(A)+rank(B)$
- transformation using $Ax=0$:
    - suppose $S=\{\vec{v}_{4\times 1}|v_1+v_2+v_3+v_4=0\}$, is $S$ a space?
    - $A_{1\times 4}=[1\ 1\ 1\ 1]\to S=N(A)$
    - $rank(A)=1,\dim N(A)=n-r=3$
    - $C(A)=\mathbb{R^1},N(A^T)=\vec{0}, \dim N(A^T)=m-r=0$

## graphs & networks
> directed graph = {nodes=n=4, edges=m=5}
- incidence matrices (关联矩阵,和常规定义多一个转置,见下) $A_{m\times n}$: column means nodes, row means edges, -1 means out, 1 means in.
    - $\vec{x}_{n\times 1}=(x_1,x_2,x_3,x_4)^T$ is potential at node (电势), $e$ is potential difference (电势差)
    - $e_{m\times 1}=Ax=(x_i-x_j,\dots)^T$
        - $\dim N(A)=1$: if $e=0\to x=(1,\dots ,1)^T$ is homogeneous solution.
        - $rank(A)=n-1$: set one node as ground ($x_1=0$), other nodes (columns) are independent.
        - loop: dependent edges (rows) compose loop, independent ones compose tree.
- kirchhoff's current law: $f=A^Ty_{m\times 1}=0$ ($f$ is external current source)
    - for each row of $A^T$: same node iterates all edges, negitive sign means leaving out the node.
    - $y_{m\times 1}=Ce_{m\times 1}$ is current (Ohm's law, $C$ is conductance, scalar)
    - $N(A^T)$: all loops / meshes with their edges $y$
        - some components in $y$ may be zero because that edge doesn't pass that loop.
        - $\dim N(A^T)=m-r=m-n+1$
        - basis of $N(A^T)$: # all smallest loops
- total equation: $A^TCAx=f$
- Eluer's formula (any graph has this property)
    - $\dim N(A^T)=m-r=m-n+1$
    - $\Leftrightarrow\#\text{loops}=\#\text{edges}-(\#\text{nodes}-1)$
    - $\Leftrightarrow\#\text{nodes}-\#\text{edges}+\#\text{loops}=1$
- tree: graph without loop (independent). Get it by choosing pivot columns from $A^T$.
