# determinants

## definition
- properities(1~3 are base):
    1. $\det I=1$
    2. exchange rows reverse the sign ($\det E_{ij}=-1$). So permutation $\det P=1/-1$ (divided to odd / even type)
    3. linearity (superposition principle) of row-wise
        - homogeneity: $\det E_{i}(c)=c$
        - additivity: $\det (A_{\text{row}-i}+B_{\text{row}-i})=\det A_{\text{row}-i} + \det B_{\text{row}-i}$ where $A$ and $B$ only has row $i$ is different.
    4. 2 equal rows lead to $\det =0$ (proof: from property 2)
    5. holds invarient when $E_{ij}(c)=1$ (proof: from property 4 and 3)
    6. row of zeros lead to $\det =0$ (proof: from property 3)
    7. $\det A = \det U=d_1d_2\dots d_n$ where $d_n$ are diagonals, $U$ is upper triangle matrix. (proof: from property 5 using Gauss-Jordan elimination $A\to U$ , then use property 1 and 3 extract $k$ from all rows)
    8. $\det A=0$ when A is singular (proof: elimination and row of zeros), $\det A\ne 0$ when A is invertable.
    9. $\det AB=(\det A)(\det B)$ (proof: if any one is singular, then through elimination $AB\to U$ contains row of zeros; otherwise $A,B$ are split into product of elementary matrices, which has this property $\det E_1A=\det E_1 \det A$ known from property 2, 3, 5)
        - $\det A^{-1}=1/\det A$
        - $\det A^2=(\det A)^2$
        - $\det 2A=2^{n}\det A$
    10. $\det A^T=\det A$ (proof: $A=LU$ to get triangle matrix, then use property 7 and 9. Or you can also use elementary matrices to do decomposition).
- calculation
    - pivot formula: split each row to #column determinants using additivity of property 3, leaving $\det \ne 0$ ones which have only one non-zero pivot in all rows and columns ($\det \ne 0$ ones like permutations of diagonal matrices, $\det =0$ ones has row / column of zeros).
    - big formula: $\det A=\sum_{n!\text{terms}}(-1)^{\text{inversion number}} a_{1\alpha}a_{2\beta}\dots$ where $\alpha ,\beta$ are permutations of $(1\dots n)$ means the column label where pivots stand in each row. We want to get diagonal matrix, whose permutation is just natural order $(1\dots n)$, to use property 7. The sign depends on exchange times of rows (inversion number).
        - illustration: split determinant to $n!$ terms using pivot formula (there are $n$ rows, each row has one column to choose, chosen column can not be chosen again).  
        - calculate inversion number:  iterate all numbers, and sum up all times that numbers before are bigger than this number. See insertion sort for principle reference.  
        - inversion number has same parity with exchange times in sorting.
            - inversion number is odd: odd permutation, otherwise even permutation.
            - exchange of two numbers change parity of permutation.
                > proof:  
                > 1. When exchange between two near numbers, the inversion number $\pm 1$ so it changes parity;  
                > 2. When exchange between two far numbers including $m$ numbers in the middle, it need $2m+1$ (this is odd so changes parity, otherwise holds parity) near number changes where $a\to b$ needs $m+1$ then $b\to a$ needs $m$, so inversion number changes parity.
- cofactors 代数余子式 of $a_{ij}\to C_{ij}=(-1)^{i+j} \det$ (n-1)-order matrix without row $i$ and col $j$.
- cofactor formula: along any row(be careful: sign hides in cofactors).
- tridiagonal matrix(三对角矩阵): diagonal and sub-diagonal has elements, others are zero. $\det A_n=\det A_{n-1}-\det A_{n-2}$(proof: expand with row_1)

## inverse formula
- $A^{-1}=\frac{1}{\det A}C^T$ where $C$ is cofactor matrix(conmosed of $C_{ij}$), but $C^T$ is adjugate matrix 伴随矩阵.
- check: $AC^T=(\det A)I$ where transpose make it easy to compute matrix multiplication. Elements 1 mean computes $\det A$, and elements 0 mean computing determinants of singular matrix (has same row!)
- $C$: multiplication means replacement of $A$ and compute the determinant.

## Cramer's rule
- $Ax=b,x=A^{-1}b=\frac{1}{\det A}C^Tb\to x_j=\frac{\det B_j}{\det A}$
- $B_j=[b\mathrm{(the\ j-th\ column)},\ (n-1)\mathrm{columns\ of\ }A]$
    > proof: expand $\det B_j$ with column $j$: row $j$ of $C^T$ means column $j$ of $C$, then replace $A_{\_ j}$ with $b$

## volume(geometry significance)
- row vectors of three base edges make up of a matrix $A,|\det A|$ is the volume of parallel hexahedron 平行六面体.
- proof:
    - determinant property 1: $A=Q,\det Q=\pm 1$ (proof: $QQ^T=I\to \det QQ^T=(\det Q)^2=1$)
    - property 2: exchange rows doesn't change volume.
    - property 3a: $\lambda$ times of one row, the volume and determinant increase the same size $\lambda$.
    - property 3b: parallelogram 平行四边形, 2-dim example:$(a,b),(c,d),(0,0),(a+c,b+d)$. $\begin{vmatrix}a+a' & b+b' \\ c & d\end{vmatrix}=\begin{vmatrix}a & b \\ c & d\end{vmatrix}+\begin{vmatrix}a' & b' \\ c & d\end{vmatrix}$ then switch det to area to prove.
- area of parallelogram=$\det [a\ b;c\ d]$
- area of triangle=$\frac{1}{2}\det [a\ b;c\ d]$(see the law of sinces)
- triangle: $(x_1,y_1),(x_2,y_2),(x_3,y_3)$. $A=\begin{bmatrix} x_1 & y_1 & 1 \\ x_2 & y_2 & 1 \\ x_3 & y_3 & 1 \end{bmatrix}$. illustration: subtract row_1 from other rows means goes back to origin and has two point like (a,b) and (c,d), then expand along third column.
> *outer product wait for illustration from book*.
