## elimination
- pivot: the first non-zero element of each row
    - invertable: pivot doesn't contain zero, has solution
    - not invertable: pivot has at least 1 zero
- manners(elementary row operations):
    - multiply the row of pivot some times and add to other rows to make all elements below the pivot in the same column be zero.
    - exchange rows: make the pivot for each row exists. Or it's non-invertable.
> $(2,1)$ means clear the (2,1) element be zero
- result: get upper triangular matrix U(N*N), which has N pivot.
- computing resource: assume A(100x100), need $\sum_{k=1}^{100}k^2$ times element-wise addition/multiplication(first row is multiplication, others are additions)
    - estimation using calculus: ~=$\int_{1}^{100} x^2\mathrm{d}x$

## resolving equations

augmented matrix(增广矩阵): combine $A$ and $b$. Use elimination with ~ to get resolutions.

## elimination matrix
- matrix multiplication **(row vector * matrix = row vector)** : A is combination of row vectors, split element of x as scalar coefficient. Then sum up.(linear combination of row of A)
- row vector expand in column direction: the answer row vector expands as well -> identity matrix(单位阵) recover matrix A.
- elimination matrix: the same operation act on identity matrix. $(2,1)\to E_{21}$ **multiply left!**
- matrix multiplication has associative law(结合律) $E_{32} E_{21} A=EA=U$

## row and column transformation

Multiply left transforms row, and multiply right transforms column in the same way of elimination matrix.

## inverse matrix of elimination matrix
- $E_{21}^{-1} E_{21}=I$ means $EA=U,E^{-1}(EA)=IA=E^{-1}U=A$
- If $E_{21}$ means row 1 multiply $n$ times add to row 2, then $E_{21}^{-1}$ means row 1 multiply $-n$ times add to row 2.