## eigenvalues, eigenvectors
- $Ax$ parallel to x: $Ax=\lambda x$, want to get all $\lambda$, and $x=0$ is useless.
- if $A$ is singular, $\lambda=0$ is eigen value
- projection matrix: $Px=x,\lambda =1;Px=0,\lambda =0$
- permutation matrix: permutes the order of $x,A=[0\ 1;1\ 0],x=[1;1]\to \lambda =1;x=[-1;1]\to \lambda =-1$.
- property:
    1. $n\times n$ has n eigen values(allow repetition: degenerate matrix, example: upper triangle matrix that diagonal elements are the same)
    2. sum of eigenvalues equals to sum of diagonal elements(trace)
    3. product of eigenvalues equals to determinant(Vieta theorem, using zero-point form and let $\lambda = 0$)
- solve $Ax=\lambda x\to (A-\lambda I)x=0$(singular), characteristic/ eigenvalue equation: $\det (A-\lambda I)=0$.
    - TARGET: no need to solve two unknowns $x,\lambda$, so find $\lambda$ first.
    - each eigenvalue match different independent eigenvectors(choose a basis from space).
    - eigenvectors are in null space of $A-\lambda I$
- relation between eigen and matrix: not like linear function(unless $B$ is multiple of identity matrix).
    - if $Ax=\lambda x,By=\alpha y\to (A+B)x=(\lambda +\alpha)x$ is wrong: $x,y$ these eigenvectors are different.
- rotation matrix: $Q=[\cos \theta \ -\sin \theta ;\sin \theta \ \cos \theta]$, orthogonal matrix.
    - complex eigenvalues are conjugate
    - symmetric / close symmetric matrix has real eigenvalues; $Q^T=-Q$: anti-symmetric, has pure imaginary eigenvalues.
    - real symmetric matrix has orthogonal eigenvectors with different eigenvalues.
