## matrix multiplication
- $A*B=C$, $C_{rc}$ means a element(r,c). $C_{34}=A(3,:)\cdot B(:,4)$ means row vector multiply column vector
- A(m X n)*B(n X p)=C(m X p), the amount of column of A must be the same as row of B
- **column and row combination**
    - column combination: B is combination of column vectors. Each column of B is linear combination of column vectors of A(gets a column vector), then expand in column direction.
    - row combination: A is combination of row vectors. Each row of A is linear combination of row vectors of B(gets a row vector), then expand in row direction.
- column vector multiply row vector(rearrange linear combination and expansion): $A(3x2)*B(2x2)=C(3x2)$, $C=A(:,1)*B(1,:) + A(:,2)*B(2,:)$.
    - column vector multiply row vector is full size matrix
    - for each element in summation, the column of answer is times of A(:,n), the row of answer is times of B(n,:)
- partition: need partitioned matrices match the scale(m X n). The calculation formula is the same as in element mode(recursion).

## inverse matrix
- $AA^{-1}=I=A^{-1}A$
- not invertable:
    - A is not square matrix($A^{-1}$ in left and right is different)
    - row/column vectors of A is linear combination of other row/column vectors, w.r.t. exists non-zero vector $x$ make $Ax=0$
        > proof: assume A is invertable, thus $Ax=0\to A^{-1}Ax=Ix=0$, opposite to requirement $x\neq 0$
    - column/row of A is parallel(the same meaning to above one), thus A cannot be transformed to identity matrix.
- get inverse matrix:
    - set up unknowns
    - Gauss: argumented matrix combine total identity matrix(just normal argumented matrix solving equations expand in column direction)
        > proof: $[A|I]\to [EA|EI]=[I|E]\to E=A^{-1}$
- properities:
    - $(AB)^{-1}=B^{-1}A^{-1}$
        > proof: $ABB^{-1}A^{-1}=I$
    - $(A^T)^{-1}=(A^{-1})^T$
        > proof: $(AA^{-1})^T=(A^{-1})^{T}A^T=I=(A^T)^{-1}A^T$

## transpose matrix
- exchange row and column, along diagonal
- $(AB)^T=B^T A^T$
    > proof: for one element(r,c) in $C=AB$ requires $A(r,:),B(:,c)$, so the same element for $C^T$ is in (c,r) requires $B^{T}(c,:),A^{T}(:,r)$

## symmetric matrix
- $A=A^T$
- $A^TA$ is symmetric matrix.
    > proof: $(A^TA)^T=A^T(A^T)^T=A^TA$