## computing null space
- When doing elimination, null space won't be changed (because for equation the solution is the same) but column space will ().
- definitions:
    - rank ($r$): the amount of pivot after elimination. Then we get echelon form $U$.
    - pivot column: column with pivots variables, #=$r$
    - free column: columns except for pivot columns. Has free variables. #=$n-r$ for $A_{m \times n}$
- general solution of $Ax=0$: (MATLAB: `null()`)
    - systematically (orthonormal basis) assign free variables, then using back substitution to get pivot variables as one basis.
    - Linear combination of these basis makes up of null space.
- reduced row echelon form $R$ (MATLAB: `rref()`)
    - using Gauss-Jordan elimination so no need back substitution: zeros above pivots, pivots are 1. put pivot columns ahead compose identity matrix, and put free columns together.
    - back substitution: $R_{m\times n}=\begin{bmatrix} I_{r\times r} & F_{r\times (n-r)} \\ 0 & 0\end{bmatrix},RN=0,N=\begin{bmatrix}-F_{r\times (n-r)} \\ I_{(n-r)\times (n-r)}\end{bmatrix}$. common case without column permutation is OK.

## rank
- obvious
    - invertable: $rank=n$
    - $A_{m\times n},0\le rank(A)\le \min\{m,n\}$
- $rank(E_1AE_2)=rank(A)$ where $E_1,E_2$ are elementary matrices.
    - $rank(A)=r$ means $A$ can be operated to row echelon form with $r$ non-zero rows.
    - equivalence: $rank(PA)=rank(AQ)=rank(PAQ)=rank(A_{m\times n})$ where $P_{m\times m},Q_{n\times n}$ are invertable.
        > proof: using elementary matrices to split $P,Q$  
        > illustration: $PAQ=\begin{bmatrix} I_r & O \\ O & O \end{bmatrix}$
- $rank(A)=rank(A^T)$ 行秩等于列秩
    > proof1: through defination, check determinant of all sub-matrices to get maximum size is $r$. And $\det A=\det A^T$.  
    > proof2: using block matrices, $A_{m\times n}=(\alpha ^T_1,\dots ,\alpha ^T_m)=(\beta _1,\dots ,\beta _n)$ composed of independent vectors $(\alpha '^T_1,\dots ,\alpha '^T_s),(\beta '_1,\dots ,\beta '_r)$  
    > where $r$ is column rank, $s$ is row rank;  
    > so $A_{m\times n}=(\alpha ^T_1,\dots ,\alpha ^T_m)=P_{m\times s}A'_{s\times n}\to r\le s$ from the prespective of columns of $P$  
    > similarly, $A_{m\times n}=A'_{m\times r}P_{r\times n}\to s\le r$ so $r=s$.
- $rank(AB)\le \min\{rank(A), rank(B)\}$
- $rank(A+B)\le rank(A)+rank(B)$
- $AB=0\to rank(A)+rank(B)\le n$
